THE BASICS:
 
Aggressive dogs are prohibited.
Dogs that become aggressive must be leashed and removed from the Dog Park immediately. (*please see signs of an aggressive dog) Scott NOTE- we will have a link to this or has to be done by one of us
 
All dogs must be properly licensed, healthy, and have current vaccinations.Dogs must be wearing a current rabies tag. This is true for puppies, too. Dogs without a current rabies tag are not allowed. 
 
Female dogs in heat are not allowed in the dog park. Un-neutered male dogs are discouraged, especially during busy times
Female dogs in heat are not permitted in the dog park; Female dogs in heat can cause aggression in male dogs. Un-neutered male dogs can also cause irritation/aggression and stress in other dogs, please be very aware of your dog if they still have balls
 
Limit three dogs per visit per Dog Park user.
This is especially important for dog walkers & sitters. If they’re not your dogs, you may not have full control over them. It’s hard enough to watch one dog!
 
All dogs must be under the control of an adult handler (at least high-schooler) at all times.This means that children under the age of 14 are not allowed to bring in the family dog without an adult present.


COLLARS & LEASHES AND TAGS – OH MY!
 
Do not bring in a dog that is on a leash.Leashed dogs are aware that they cannot run away from a perceived threat, so they are inclined to become defensive. Likewise, other dogs may see a leashed dog as an easy target since it cannot get away. Dogs that cannot be trusted off-leash should not be brought into an off-leash park.
 
While inside the park, please remove prong collars.
Because dogs play by using their mouths, a prong collar could lead to injury. In addition, if a fight breaks out, humans cannot easily grab a dog wearing a prong collar.
 
Please take off harnesses or other items that have the potential to entangle dogs.
If dogs are actively playing, it is easy for them to get their paws & jaws stuck in harnesses – and hard to get them unstuck.
 
 
BEHAVIOR (YOURS AND YOUR DOG’S):
 
If you are distracted, you cannot quickly respond to an urgent situation.
We know you are playing hooky from work. But please limit reading, writing, phone calls, emails, games etc… your focus should remain on your dog.
 
Don’t scold someone else’s dog.
You wouldn’t want them to do that to your dog. If there is a behavioral issue, or something that bothers you, simply express your concern to the owner. EXCEPTION: If there is an aggressive dog situation and the owner is not immediately present, do your best
 
Be aware of bullying.
If a group of dogs begins bullying another dog, make sure your dog isn’t participating - and encourage other owners to do the same. If your dog is involved, please calmly remove him/her from the situation and allow time for all to cool off.


If a dangerous situation arises, try to remain calm.
Tense situations are bound to happen, and warrant a quick shift of focus for dogs. When this happens, please try to keep yelling and any physical reactions to a minimum. Both can increase adrenaline and stress. Remove your dog (and yourself) from the immediate area and give everyone time to cool off.
 
Take Responsibility.
If you or your dog misbehaves - just own up to it, apologize, and move on. If your dog causes injury to another dog
 
Be friendly.
It’s more enjoyable if everyone is nice to each other.
 
 
CHILDREN:
 
General safety.
Small children, especially running children, may be regarded as prey animals by strange dogs. Dogs may also feel the urge to protect children they know. This tends to cause aggressive behavior.
If you must bring children to a dog park, supervise them closely. Children must NOT be allowed to behave in ways that could excite or startle the dogs in the park. Also, do not let children roll logs or turn over rocks, it damages the park environment and they could be bitten by snakes. 
 
Never let them roam unattended.
Remember, this is a dog park, not a children’s park! Do not let your kids roam in the park unsupervised! Many dogs can be too rough or even aggressive towards children. PLEASE keep children close to you and under constant supervision.
 
FOOD, DRINK & SMOKING:
 
Food is not allowed inside park.
Food of any sort (human food as well as dog treats) is NOT allowed inside the fence. 
The presence of food can easily provoke competition among dogs, which may lead to aggression. 

Even if you have treats in a zip-lock bag in your pocket, dogs can smell it and act accordingly. Do not bring anything edible inside the fence!
 
Smoking is not allowed inside the park or any park in City of Decatur.
 
/////////////////////
 
TOYS:
 
There will always be stray balls and Frisbees.
But please do not bring any personal dog toys inside the park. Dogs may claim toys that do not belong to them, which may lead to aggressive behavior. And small toys may be a choking hazard to some dogs, especially larger dogs.
 
 
 
 
Above all, please be courteous to other dog owners and ensure that your dog is getting along with the other dogs in the dog park. You wouldn’t want another dog to start a fight with your dog, and you wouldn’t want to step in a pile of dog poop!